---
layout: post
title: 🏢internship update: i did a thing!🏢
date: 2016-06-22
---

<p>This going to be a pretty short post: just here to give a quick update on my internship and what I've been working on over the last few weeks. I started out by familiarizing myself with AuriQ's current product, Essentia, which is a data lake management and analysis software. I worked through the tutorials like any user would, getting a feel for what the Essentia workflow looked like. Then, I spent some time researching open data, which is basically just really large datasets made freely available for public access anduse. Amazon AWS has their own catalogue of public datasets, so I worked through those, figuring out which ones could be used with Essentia, and then working out how exactly to process those data with Essentia. I wrote Essentia shell scripts to run on my EC2 instance that categorized and cleaned data, and often evaluated data values as well, depending on the type of analysis I wanted to do. Then, I analyzed the resulting data in Excel, producing meaningful charts, graphs, and other analyses. I put all of this together (peek <a href=https://github.com/dorothychang15/essentia-scripts>my Github repository</a>), and presented my work at a Friday lunch meeting. I also curated some examples for a blog post on AuriQ's <a href="http://www.auriq.com/blog/2016/06/20/open-data-and-essentia/">website</a>, where I talk more in depth about what I did. </p>
<p>It's definitely been a learning experience thus far: I've been exposed to tools and technologies I've never used before, including Linux and SQL. I like learning on my feet, though- it's more efficient. Next, since I've exhausted the AWS public data sets, I'll be sourcing open data from all over, and creating more Essentia examples with those. Open data is the next big thing, and we want to make sure that researchers and businesses looking to work with these data sets know that Essentia is their best option. More updates to come!</p>